# $Id$

			bogofilter TODO list

1) New Feature: Token aging

2) Unknown Category: Two deletes for kmail? (please explain?)

3) New Feature: Make it a milter?

4) New Feature: Multiple list file support with weights and rules. Wordlist verfification.
Eric Seppanen:
> Allow use of a variable number of list files, each with their
> own weights and rules.
> Possible uses:
> - hand-maintained "whitelist" or "blacklist" files, with massive 
> weighting to override everything else.
> - allow users to use system-wide list files and their own files.
> 
> Allow ratings on multiple user-defined scales based on different list 
> files.
> - would allow use as a mail sorting tool.  It could automatically sort 
> mail into ogg-vorbis discussions, rock-climbing discussions, and so on.
Shared-database version based on the autodaemon code,
In the shared-database version (which doesn't yet exist) worldlist
verification to avoid attacks on posters (thanks, Barry!).
Emulate the Vipul's Razor reputation scheme for people reporting tokens?
http://razor.sourceforge.net/

5) What this software is probably heading towards is a scheme in which
there's a general notion of tagged categories (spam being one) with
cluster analysis being applied to categorize which categories a
message belongs to at above 0.9 confidence level.

6) Design Enhancement: Close a potential hole in filtering by evaluating the
content within quoted printable MIME attachments.

7) Design Enhancement: Improve evaluation accuracy by treating words common
in both wordlists as neutral by excluding them from the probability
calculation when their significance to the total probability falls below a
certain limit.

8) Documentation: Establish a bogofilter FAQ. Put information in about how
to use SpamAssasin to train bogofilter.

9) New Feature: Shared wordlist support with good shared/exclusive file
locking. (In progress, Adrian Otto)

10) New Feature: Identify a messages that probably contain viruses. Mark them
in -p mode with an additional header. This feature to be enabled or disabled
using a run-time CLI option.

11) New Feature: Web based tool for wordlist management. Allow message
registration and whitelist management. HTML Templatized for easy integration
with existing web mail systems.

12) Performance Enhancement: Investigate if mmap/msync might help
performance. Don't the db3 libraries probably already implement these?

13) New Feature: Add support for a user configurable list of headers that should be used to ignore (single or multi-line) headers that appear in the list. The list should be used to ignore headers both during the message registration and evaluation procedures.
